[theme music plays]
[ravens caw]
Exactly one centimeter taller.
A perfectly-controlled growth spell.
Well done, Felicity.
Now, Mildred... Hubble?
[high-pitched voice] I'm sorry.
I must have accidentally reversed it.
And that's another mock exam
you've failed.
Bottom of the class again, Mildred.
Don't look so smug, Ethel.
-You only scored 96 percent.
-Ouch.
Ninety-six? How?
You failed to focus,
probably because of your increasingly
ridiculous feud with Mildred Hubble.
Listen, girls, you cannot afford
any distractions.
You have one week
until the real end-of-term exams.
And anyone who fails those...
will be out... for good.
[snaps fingers]
Don't worry, I'm sure you'll do better
in the real exams.
How? I'm 11 years behind
the rest of you. I'll never catch up.
Yes, you will.
I made you a revision timetable.
Thanks.
Meet me in my room in ten minutes.
[maglet chimes]
[bell rings]
[Miss Cackle] Come in.
[door closes]
[cat mews]
[mews]
Thank you, Nightstar. Good cat.
I set her to keep watch
outside Miss Cackle's office.
What for?
Mildred Hubble.
She's been having private meetings
with Miss Cackle.
-I bet you it's about the secret scroll.
-What secret scroll?
I don't know, it's a secret.
But Mildred knows.
And we're going to find out.
If it became known that Agatha
is the elder twin...
I would have to give up
the school to her.
That seems a bit... silly.
Maybe to you, but the Witches' Code
is very strict
on the subject of inheritance.
You're breaking the Witches' Code?
As it turns out,
I've been breaking it all of my life.
I would never have chosen
to cheat my sister.
But now I know what she's capable of.
-You can't tell her.
-No, I can't.
This knowledge could endanger
the entire school.
And you cannot tell anyone,
not even your best friends.
-Promise me.
-I promise.
[Miss Cackle snaps fingers]
Hi.
[sighs] Hi, Mildred.
What's wrong?
Uh... You were supposed
to revise together.
Oh, right, sorry. I forgot.
I know it's boring...
but I was only trying to help you.
[Ethel] So...
Where were you?
With Miss Cackle.
[Ethel] Whatever were you talking about?
Oh, you know,
it's just 'cause I failed my mocks.
If you don't want to tell me,
you don't have to.
Maud.
[Drusilla] I still can't get my head
around these levitation equations.
Can you help me?
No time for that. We've got work to do.
Be very careful, Ada.
Show Agatha pity
and she will take advantage.
I know... but I must see her.
-At least let me come with you.
-No, Hecate.
I need you here...
in case anything happens.
Powdered chameleon skin.
Parrot's tongue.
Those are restricted ingredients.
Do you want to find out
about this secret or not?
I want whatever you want.
-[knocking at door]
-[cat mews]
-It's only me. Maud.
-Come in.
-Look, I'm revising.
-I can see that.
I want to talk.
-OK.
-[Maud] As your best friend,
I don't think it's fair
that you are keeping secrets from me.
I'm not. I'm not.
That is a lie, Mildred Hubble.
-And you know it is.
-[cat snarls, hisses]
Naughty Tabby.
Tell me what's going on
or this friendship is over.
Hi.
-Don't you ever knock?
-Nice to see you too, Maud.
[Maud] We can't talk here.
I'll meet you by the broomstick shed
in five minutes.
Um... Yeah, OK.
-What's up with Maud?
-I don't know, she's not herself.
That's it! Tabby, you're a genius.
[cat purrs]
So Tabby just tried to scratch Maud,
except he'd never do that.
So maybe that wasn't Maud.
-I know who it was.
-Ethel Hallow?
She's really crossed the line this time.
No, wait.
Don't you want
to have some fun... first?
[bird calls]
[ravens caw]
[door creaks]
[ravens caw outside]
Hello, Agatha?
Agatha?
Are you in here?
I don't think best friends
should have secrets, do you?
No.
OK, I'll tell you.
The truth is...
I am from a magical family.
A very magical family.
In fact, I'm Miss Cackle's niece.
-What?
-Yes.
Auntie Ada didn't want people to think
she was giving special treatment to me.
So we decided to keep it a secret.
-Does Miss Hardbroom know about this?
-Oh, yeah.
Um, she even pretends
to be extra mean to me...
just to make it look good.
I can trust you, can't I?
You won't tell anyone?
Of course. Your secret's safe with me.
[bell tolls]
That's better.
It all makes sense now.
That's why they let her in.
I have to put this right.
-She's gone?
-Yes.
Somehow, Agatha managed to escape
the enchantments
that bound her to Darkwood Cottage.
But how? She's got no magical powers.
Then another witch must have helped her.
But her punishment was decreed
by the Great Wizard himself.
The code absolutely forbids it.
Clearly, Agatha has friends who are
willing to break the code for her.
[whoosh]
Your Greatness,
I have some rather worrying news.
The Great Wizard will be here tomorrow,
but until Agatha is caught,
we must take extra precautions.
I have placed protective spells
on the school buildings.
No outsider will be able to enter
unless they are explicitly invited in
by one of the staff...
or pupils.
Furthermore, any girl who leaves
school grounds without permission
will be instantly expelled.
[Enid chuckles]
Now, get on with your work.
Millie, over here.
[clears throat] What do you want?
I know you have trouble with your exams,
so I made you a studying syrup
to help you concentrate.
Why did you do that?
You don't even like her.
I want to be your best friend.
Don't touch that.
Please just try it.
Leave her alone!
Using unauthorized spells again.
What is in this mixture really?
It was just a little friendship potion.
Totally harmless.
I just wanted to be better friends
with your niece.
[Miss Cackle] My niece?
[Ethel] Don't worry,
your secret's safe with me.
I never really believed the whole
"worst witch" thing anyway.
[Miss Cackle] Mildred, did you tell Ethel
that you were my niece?
Yes.
But I told Maud,
but it wasn't really Maud.
It was Ethel pretending to be Maud.
More unauthorized magic.
Well, yeah, but...
Mildred, I thought
I could depend on you.
You can, I promise.
I didn't mean to.
I just didn't think.
That's your problem, isn't it?
You never do think.
But you must learn, Mildred Hubble.
You will learn.
Until the end of term,
you are both confined to your rooms
during all free periods.
This foolishness must stop
before you bring great harm
to this academy.
I've never seen Miss Cackle like that.
What if that isn't Miss Cackle?
What if Agatha came back
from Darkwood Cottage instead?
This school is all she's ever wanted.
She's not going to stop trying
until she gets it.
We have to warn everyone.
Calm down.
We have no evidence that that's Agatha.
-Then we need to get some.
-[Maud] I'll do that.
You're grounded, remember?
But we've all known Ada for years.
Yes, someone would have noticed.
-They didn't last time.
-That's true.
So what do we do?
[knocking at door]
-Come in.
-[door opens]
[frog ribbits]
What is it, dear?
[Maud] It's Mr. Rowan Webb.
He's turned into a frog again.
[frog ribbits]
Well, it's hardly surprising
after 30 years in amphibian form.
-So? Can you help him?
-[croaks]
You've been practicing reversal spells
for your exams.
Why don't you help him?
I tried,
but my magic isn't strong enough.
[Miss Cackle] Really?
How disappointing.
So... will you help him?
Who?
[ribbits]
Oh, Mr. Rowan Webb. Of course.
Hmm! Thanks, Ada.
Hmm! It's a bit embarrassing.
[Miss Cackle] Yes.
You really must be more careful.
Yes... Miss Cackle.
[Mildred] Could still be Agatha.
Maybe she got her powers back.
Shall I test you on your witch maps?
Look, I just can't think about exams
at a time like this.
If Agatha really has taken
Miss Cackle's place,
then why hasn't Miss Cackle
come back to stop her?
Agatha must have trapped her somewhere.
In the cottage.
Darkwood isn't too far away.
We could get there by broomstick
in an hour.
No, you heard what HB said.
If we leave the school,
we'll be expelled.
We'll never see each other again.
-Maybe we need to take a chance.
-Really?
That's how much you care about me?
I do. You're my best friend.
But the whole school's in danger.
[Maud] You're the one in danger.
You're about to fail your exams
and get chucked out.
If I really am your best friend--
-You are.
-[Maud] Then prove it.
Stay here and do some revision.
[Esmerelda] I heard what happened.
-Of course you did.
-[cat mews]
I bet you were straight
on the mirror to Mum.
"Guess what Ethel's done this time!
She's such a rubbish daughter.
Lucky I'm so perfect in every way."
Don't have a go at me,
I'm only trying to help.
I don't want your help! It's bad enough
always being second best.
If you are,
you only have yourself to blame.
The older sister gets everything.
Those are the rules. How is that my fault?
It's not, but, Ethel, it's your life.
Only you can change it.
You're right. I have to do this.
Now.
[cat mews]
[sighs] Sorry, Maud.
[bat squeaking]
[raven caws]
[bird calls]
[bat squeaking nearby]
-Miss Cackle?
-[woman] Come in, dear.
[door creaks]
Miss Cackle?
Mildred Hubble, is that you?
I can't see you without my glasses.
It's me, Miss Cackle.
-My dear child, you found me.
-[Mildred] I knew it, it's horrible.
Agatha's taken over the school
but everyone thinks she's you
and she's got her powers back.
I know. She took mine
when she imprisoned me here.
-But can't you get them back?
-Yes. Yes.
But it would involve a great sacrifice.
What do you mean?
I know you, Mildred.
You will do anything to help your friends.
You want me to give you my powers?
I'm so sorry, dear. It's the only way.
But it must be your own free will.
What do I do?
Take my hand.
Repeat after me.
-I, Mildred Hubble...
-...freely gift my witch's powers...
...to the one with whom I stand.
-To Ada Cackle.
-No, dear.
You must say it exactly as I did.
Why?
It's a very high-level magic thing.
You wouldn't understand.
I do. You're Agatha.
-[Mildred gasps]
-Looking for this?
-Miss Gullet.
-Tut-tut.
No working safety spells.
No cat. And now this.
What a shambles.
It's completely unsafe.
No!
Gullet!
Grab her!
-[gasps]
-[grunts]
Help! Somebody!
Witches don't beg for help,
witches help themselves.
-But then you're not a witch.
-[Mildred] I am a witch.
By root, branch, and tree, let me flee.
[groans]
Come on.
[Agatha groans]
Bats! A clumsiness curse.
I didn't know the little slug
had it in her.
We'll deal with her later,
if she ever gets out of the woods.
For now,
we've got bigger cauldrons to boil.
It's time I got my powers back.
I've already told you, we'll do anything
to get our revenge, won't we, Flappy?
Except that.
I know. You gave me my freedom
and that's enough.
But Mildred's not the only gullible child
at the academy.
[Miss Gullet laughs]
[cat mews]
[animal screeches in the distance]
[Ethel] I think I know
where it will be, Nightstar.
Ethel.
Of course you followed me.
To stop you doing something foolish.
-What are you doing?
-The scroll.
It's here, it has to be.
"What is lost must now be found.
Let the secret be unbound."
What's that?
They lied to her.
All her life.
What? Let me see.
Miss Gullet, what are you doing here?
It's all right. She's with me.
Miss Cackle, what's going on?
The school is in danger
and Miss Gullet has been helping me.
-Let us in.
-We'll need to invite you.
[stammers] Of course.
Um, well met and welcome, Miss Gullet.
Well met, Esmerelda.
Sorry, well met and welcome,
Miss Cackle.
A terrible thing has happened,
my dear girls.
Agatha has stolen my powers.
Will one of you make
a brave and noble sacrifice
and give up your magic
for your headmistress?
-I will.
-No, I won't let you.
I'll do it.
I'm sorry, Maud.
I should have listened.
You were right. I'll trust you next time.
I, Esmerelda Hallow,
freely gift my witch's powers...
...to the one with whom I stand.
[door opens]
[gasps] Esmerelda!
What have you done?
-Miss Cackle.
-[Agatha] We're both Miss Cackle.
[distant animal cry]
But I'm Agatha.
You knew!
-[Ethel] Well met, Agatha.
-Well met.
I think you might want to see this.
It's your birth scroll.
They lied.
You lied.
[anxious chatter]
You can't be headmistress.
You haven't even got magical powers.
[thunder crashes]
Wrong.
Anyone else want to question
my leadership?
[sighs] Maud.
-Mildred.
-[Mildred] I'm sorry.
You were right.
Please don't be mad at me.
Miss Hardbroom!
Maud!
Did you leave school grounds
without permission?
She did, Miss Hardbroom.
-I-I know, but--
-[Miss Hardbroom] You know the penalty.
I shall transfer you home immediately.
I'm sorry, I was wrong. Maud!
[gasps] Oh!
Mildred!
Mum.
-[crying softly]
-Oh...
You did the right thing, Maud.
I know.
[door creaks and then slams]
[theme music plays]